# ML-demo

This notebook provides scripts used to train four datasets provided by Polymer Genome (PG, https://www.polymergenome.org/), including the (DFT) HSE band gap, the (electronic and ionic) dielectric constants, and the atomization energy of about 380 organic polymers. Polymers crystals in each dataset were fingerprinted at a level of atomic-level fingerprints called triples. Four datasets are combined in file "data.csv". Given the nature of the physical properties demonstrated here, the atomic-level fingerprint (described below) are sufficient. The data file is in csv format in which each polymer is in a line. The first column is for polymer id, the next four columns are for atomization energy, band gap, electronic, and ionic dielectric constants, and the remaining columns are for fingerprints.

Details on the data curation are given in [Huan et el, Sci. Data 3, 160012 (2016)]. This includes how to get polymers crystal structures, what level of DFT used for computations, to what extent the data is validated, and so on. The atomic fragment-based fingerprints are described in [Huan et al., Phys. Rev. B 92, 014106 (2015)], in which the motivation, the definition, and the relations of the fingerprints are described. In short, these fingerprints capture how many fragments of a given type that show up in the polymer. C2 is a single, representing a C atom with two bonds, and O2 is another single representing an O atom with two bonds. A double or triple contains two or three singles in a given order. From the chemistry, more information can be readily extracted. For example, two bonds of a C2 must be double bonds while for C3, two are single bonds and the other is a double bond. Note that the data associated with this notebook was fingerprinted using triples only.

The scripts provided here will train the Gaussian Process Regression (GPR) models on the provided data. GPR is used in PG for some reasons, i.e., it is quite intuitive and a measure of uncertainty can be obtained. 

NOTICE: All information contained herein is, and remains the property of Georgia Tech Research Corporation and its sponsors, if any. The intellectual and technical concepts contained herein are proprietary to Georgia Tech Research Corporation and its sponsors and may be covered by U.S. and Foreign Patents, patents in process, and are protected by trade secret or copyright law. Dissemination of this information or reproduction of this material is strictly forbidden unless prior written permission is obtained from Georgia Tech Research Corporation.


